# NAME

crontab - schedule periodic background work

# SYNOPSIS

`ast\_crontab` \[ `options` \] \[ file \]

# DESCRIPTION

`crontab` creates, replaces or edits the calling user crontab entry; a
crontab entry is a list of commands and the times at which they are to
be executed. The new crontab entry can be input by specifying `file`, or
input from standard input if `file` is omitted, or by using an editor,
if `--edit` is specified. The actual crontab entry is maintained in
the file `\$HOME/.crontab`.

Upon execution of a command from a crontab entry, the implementation
will supply a default environment, defining at least the following
environment variables:

`HOME`
: A pathname of the calling user home directory.

`LOGNAME`
: The calling user login name.

`PATH`
: A string representing a search path guaranteed to find all of the
    standard utilities.

`SHELL`
: A pathname of the command interpreter
    [`sh`](/web/20151102030746/http://www2.research.att.com:80/~astopen/man/man1/sh.html)(1).

If standard output and standard error are not redirected by commands
executed from the crontab entry, any generated output or errors will be
mailed to the calling user.

Users are permitted to use `crontab` if their names appear in the file
`/usr/lib/cron/cron.allow`. If that file does not exist, the file
`/usr/lib/cron/cron.deny` is checked to determine if the calling user
should be denied access to `crontab`. If neither file exists, only a
process with appropriate privileges is allowed to submit a job. If only
`cron.deny` exists and is empty, global usage is permitted. The
`cron.allow` and `cron.deny` files consist of one user name per
line.

In this implementation, each command in the `crontab` file represents
a single
[`at`](/web/20151102030746/http://www2.research.att.com:80/~astopen/man/man1/at.html)(1)
`job`. Only one job per command will be executed. A new job for a given
command will not be scheduled until the previous job for that command,
if any, has exited.

# OPTIONS

-`e`, --`edit`
: Edit a copy of the calling user crontab entry, or create an empty
    entry to edit if the crontab entry does not exist. When editing is
    complete, the entry will be installed as the calling user crontab
    entry. The editor used is defined by the `EDITOR`
    environment variable. The default editor is
    [`vi`](/web/20151102030746/http://www2.research.att.com:80/~astopen/man/man1/vi.html)(1).

-`l`, --`list`
: List the calling user crontab entry.

-`r`, --`remove|delete`
: Remove the calling user crontab entry.

# INPUT FILES

A crontab entry must be a text file consisting of lines of six fields
each. The fields must be separated by blank characters. The first five
fields must be integer patterns that specify the following:

`1.`
: Minute (0-59)

`2.`
: Hour (0-23)

`3.`
: Day of the month (1-31)

`4.`
: Month of the year (1-12)

`5.`
: Day of the week (0-6 with 0=Sunday)

Each of these patterns can be either an asterisk (meaning all valid
values), an element or a list of elements separated by commas. An
element must be either a number or two numbers separated by a hyphen
(meaning an inclusive range). The specification of days can be made by
two fields (day of the month and day of the week). If month, day of
month and day of week are all asterisks, every day will be matched. If
either the month or day of month is specified as an element or list, but
the day of week is an asterisk, the month and day of month fields will
specify the days that match. If both month and day of month are
specified as asterisk, but day of week is an element or list, then only
the specified days of the week will match. Finally, if either the month
or day of month is specified as an element or list, and the day of week
is also specified as an element or list, then any day matching either
the month and day of month or the day of week, will be matched.

The sixth field of a line in a crontab entry is a string that will be
executed by `sh` at the specified times. A percent sign character in
this field will be translated to a newline character. Any character
preceded by a backslash (including the %) causes that character to be
treated literally. Only the first line (up to a "%" or end-of-line) of
the command field will be executed by the command interpreter. The other
lines will be made available to the command as standard input.

A job label is generated by a readable hash of the command. If the first
characters are `:` `label``;` then the job label will be set to
`label` verbatim. Job labels are limited to 12 characters.

Blank lines and those whose first non-blank character is "\#" will be
ignored.

# FILES

`\$HOME/.crontab`
: Edited per-user crontab entry file.

# SEE ALSO

[`at`](/web/20151102030746/http://www2.research.att.com:80/~astopen/man/man1/at.html)(1),
[`batch`](/web/20151102030746/http://www2.research.att.com:80/~astopen/man/man1/batch.html)(1),
[`sh`](/web/20151102030746/http://www2.research.att.com:80/~astopen/man/man1/sh.html)(1)

# IMPLEMENTATION

`version`
: crontab (AT&T Labs Research) 2006-05-17

`author`
: Glenn Fowler

`copyright`
: Copyright © 1996-2010 AT&T Intellectual Property

`license`
: [http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl1.0.txt](https://web.archive.org/web/20151102030746/http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl1.0.txt)


