# NAME

cksum,md5sum,sum - print file checksum and block count

# SYNOPSIS

`cksum,md5sum,sum` \[ `options` \] \[ file ... \]

# DESCRIPTION

`sum` lists the checksum, and for most methods the block count, for
each file argument. The standard input is read if there are no `file`
arguments. `getconf UNIVERSE` determines the default `sum` method:
`att` for the `att` universe, `bsd` otherwise. The default for the
other commands is the command name itself. The `att` method is a true
sum, all others are order dependent.

Method names consist of a leading identifier and 0 or more options
separated by -.

`getconf PATH\_RESOLVE` determines how symbolic links are handled.
This can be explicitly overridden by the `--logical` ,
`--metaphysical`, and `--physical` options below. `PATH\_RESOLVE`
can be one of:

`logical`
: Follow all symbolic links.

`metaphysical`
: Follow command argument symbolic links, otherwise don't follow.

`physical`
: Don't follow symbolic links.

# OPTIONS

-`a`, --`all`
: List the checksum for all files. Use with `--total` to list both
    individual and total checksums and block counts.

-`b`, --`binary`
: Read files in binary mode. This is the default.

-`B`, --`scale`=`scale`
: Block count scale (bytes per block) override for methods that
    include size in the output. The default is method specific.

-`c`, --`check`
: Each `file` is interpreted as the output from a previous `sum`. If
    `--header` or `--permissions` was specified in the previous
    `sum` then the checksum method is automatically determined,
    otherwise `--method` must be specified. The listed checksum is
    compared with the current value and a warning is issued for each
    file that does not match. If `file` was generated by
    `--permissions` then the file mode, user and group are
    also checked. Empty lines, lines starting with `\#&lt;space&gt;`,
    or the line `\#` are ignored. Lines containing no blanks are
    interpreted as \[no\]`name`\[=`value`\] options:

    [`method=name`]()
    : Checksum method to apply to subsequent lines.

    [`permissions`]()
    : Subsequent lines were generated with `--permissions`.

-`h`, --`header`

Print the checksum method as the first output line. Used with
`--check` and `--permissions` .

-`l`, --`list`

Each `file` is interpreted as a list of files, one per line, that is
checksummed.

-`p`, --`permissions`

If `--check` is not specified then list the file mode, user and group
between the checksum and path. User and group matching the caller are
output as `-`. If `--check` is specified then the mode, user and
group for each path in `file` are updated if necessary to match those in
`file` . A warning is printed on the standard error for each changed
file.

-`R`, --`recursive`

Recursively checksum the contents of directories.

-`S`, --`silent|status`

No output for `--check`; 0 exit status means all sums matched, non-0
means at least one sum failed to match. Ignored for `--permissions`.

-`t`, --`total`

List only the total checksum and block count of all files. `--all`
`--total` lists each checksum and the total. The total checksum and
block count may be different from the checksum and block count of the
catenation of all files due to partial blocks that may occur when the
files are treated separately.

-`T`, --`text`

Read files in text mode (i.e., treat `\\r\\n` as `\\n`).

-`w`, --`warn`

Warn about invalid `--check` lines. On by default; -`w` means
--`nowarn`.

-`x`, --`method|algorithm`=`method`

Specifies the checksum `method` to apply. Parenthesized method options
are readonly implementation details.

`att|sys5|s5|default`
: The system 5 release 4 checksum. This is the default for `sum`
    when `getconf UNIVERSE` is `att`. This is the only true sum; all
    of the other methods are order dependent.

`ast4|32x4|tw`
: The `ast` 128 bit PRNG hash generated by catenating 4 separate 32
    bit PNRG hashes. The block count is not printed.

`bsd|ucb`
: The BSD checksum.

`crc`
: 32 bit CRC (cyclic redundancy check).

    [`polynomial=`mask``]()
    : The 32 bit crc polynomial bitmask with implicit bit 32. The
        default value is `0xedb88320`.

    [`done\[=`number`\]`]()
    : XOR the final crc value with `number`. 0xffffffff is used if
        `number` is omitted. The option value may be omitted. The
        default value is `0`.

    [`init\[=`number`\]`]()
    : The initial crc value. 0xffffffff is used if `number`
        is omitted. The option value may be omitted. The default value
        is `0`.

    [`rotate`]()
    : XOR each input character with the high order crc byte (instead
        of the low order).

    [`size\[=`number`\]`]()
    : Include the total number of bytes in the crc. `number` , if
        specified, is first XOR'd into the size. The option value may
        be omitted. The default value is `0`.

[`prng`]()

32 bit PRNG (pseudo random number generator) hash.

`mpy=`number``
: The 32 bit PRNG multiplier. The default value is `0x01000193` .

`add=`number``
: The 32 bit PRNG addend. The default value is `0`.

`init\[=`number`\]`
: The PRNG initial value. 0xffffffff is used if `number` is omitted.
    The option value may be omitted. The default value is
    `0x811c9dc5`.

[`md5|MD5`]()

The RSA Data Security, Inc. MD5 Message-Digest Method, 1991-2, used with
permission. The block count is not printed.

``(version)
: md5 (RSA Data Security, Inc. MD5 Message-Digest, 1991-2) 1996-02-29

[`sha1|SHA1|sha-1|SHA-1`]()

FIPS 180-1 SHA-1 secure hash algorithm 1.

``(version)
: sha1 (FIPS 180-1) 1996-09-26

``(author)
: Steve Reid

[`sha256|sha-256|SHA256|SHA-256`]()

FIPS SHA-256 secure hash algorithm.

``(version)
: sha-256 (FIPS) 2000-01-01

``(author)
: Aaron D. Gifford

[`sha384|sha-384|SHA384|SHA-384`]()

FIPS SHA-384 secure hash algorithm.

``(version)
: sha-384 (FIPS) 2000-01-01

``(author)
: Aaron D. Gifford

[`sha512|sha-512|SHA512|SHA-512`]()

FIPS SHA-512 secure hash algorithm.

``(version)
: sha-512 (FIPS) 2000-01-01

``(author)
: Aaron D. Gifford

[`posix|cksum|std|standard`]()

The posix 1003.2-1992 32 bit crc checksum. This is the default
[`cksum`](/web/20141110061257/http://www2.research.att.com:80/~astopen/man/man1/cksum.html)(1)
method. Shorthand for `crc-0x04c11db7-rotate-done-size` .

[`zip`]()

The
[`zip`](/web/20141110061257/http://www2.research.att.com:80/~astopen/man/man1/zip.html)(1)
crc. Shorthand for `crc-0xedb88320-init-done` .

[`fddi`]()

The FDDI crc. Shorthand for `crc-0xedb88320-size=0xcc55cc55`.

[`fnv|fnv1`]()

The Fowler-Noll-Vo 32 bit PRNG hash with non-zero initializer (FNV-1).
Shorthand for `prng-0x01000193-init=0x811c9dc5`.

[`ast|strsum`]()

The `ast`
[`strsum`](/web/20141110061257/http://www2.research.att.com:80/~astopen/man/man3/strsum.html)(3)
PRNG hash. Shorthand for `prng-0x63c63cd9-add=0x9c39c33d`.

-`L`, --`logical|follow`

Follow symbolic links when traversing directories. The default is
determined by `getconf PATH\_RESOLVE`.

-`H`, --`metaphysical`

Follow command argument symbolic links, otherwise don't follow symbolic
links when traversing directories. The default is determined by
`getconf PATH\_RESOLVE`.

-`P`, --`physical`

Don't follow symbolic links when traversing directories. The default is
determined by `getconf PATH\_RESOLVE`.

-`r`, --`bsd`

Equivalent to `--method=bsd --scale=512` for compatibility with other
[`sum`](/web/20141110061257/http://www2.research.att.com:80/~astopen/man/man1/sum.html)(1)
implementations.

-`s`, --`sysv`

Equivalent to `--method=sys5` for compatibility with other
[`sum`](/web/20141110061257/http://www2.research.att.com:80/~astopen/man/man1/sum.html)(1)
implementations.

# SEE ALSO

[`getconf`](/web/20141110061257/http://www2.research.att.com:80/~astopen/man/man1/getconf.html)(1),
[`tw`](/web/20141110061257/http://www2.research.att.com:80/~astopen/man/man1/tw.html)(1),
[`uuencode`](/web/20141110061257/http://www2.research.att.com:80/~astopen/man/man1/uuencode.html)(1)

# IMPLEMENTATION

`version`
: sum (AT&T Research) 2009-11-28

`author`
: Glenn Fowler

`author`
: David Korn

`copyright`
: Copyright © 1992-2010 AT&T Intellectual Property

`license`
: [http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl1.0.txt](https://web.archive.org/web/20141110061257/http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl1.0.txt)


